So this blog and call me again.
And what did I want to look at.
All right.
So let's look at transactions per block.
Interesting chart here.
Again this is if you go to the right and you go to charts.
So transactions per block this is for the past year you can see that it's sitting at around 2000 So
this is 2000.
You can actually do like a seven day average here doesn't really help anyway.
So you can see that it's it's about 2000 right now it's dropped to 1000 300.
So yeah that's the transactions per block and that indeed can vary because of the size of each individual
transaction.
So if transactions grow in size the sample of the year that we have here.
So it kind of goes up and down but that really depends on the individual size in terms of megabytes
or kilobytes per transaction.
Now if we look at charts again and we go and look at the different one we look at average block size.
So that should be more or less consistent because the Maximum block size is one megabyte like one megabyte
or so sequences one zero point zero or five.
So more or less all the time.
This chart should be around 1 megabytes.
You know sometimes things happen I guess but it doesn't go like up to 2 megabytes or like you know down
to consistently half a megabyte.
It's always around 1 megabyte.
And that's because minors generally you know like want to maximize the usage of that block because they
don't want to leave it half empty.
They want to put in as much as they can in order to get as many fees as possible when they can.
And speaking of fees is another interesting show here total transaction fees.
So this is total value of transaction fees paid to minors not including the coin base value look or
what.
So basically not including any new bitcoins that are generated for creating the block itself.
And so you can see here this is in U.S. dollars.
Interesting.
So you can see here that this is how much minors are actually getting in terms of fees in the past year.
They're earning it while you can see here in December 2017 they earned in one day in one day.
The miners earn 22 million dollars in fees.
How crazy is that.
And just recently yesterday they earned $400000 in fees but the reason here is there's two is twofold.
First one is demand.
Of course if people want to push transactions into the network into the blotching then they have to
like there's a lot of demand a lot of people want to have their transactions go through the list there's
only so much that he can take right.
There's only one megabyte per block of transactions that can be included.
So therefore people have to specify higher fees.
You know like when there's a lot of demand for people putting in their transactions whoever has the
highest specifies the highest fees when so that drives the fees up.
It's like a supply and demand economy.
And when there's not that much going on that people don't like there's not that many transactions that
need to go through.
People are not in a rush.
Are those two factors then the fees go down.
But the other thing is that this is in use the not in BTC I'm not sure why they actually did it and
it was D rather than in BTC because this is affected by the exchange rate.
Right so we know that in December Bitcoin was like the highest ever and then kind of dropped off a little
bit I think like Bitcoin was like almost to or around $20000 per bitcoin back then so you know like
if you convert this back to Bitcoin it won't be as chaotic.
It will be more more stable.
So that's another thing to keep in mind.
So there you go.
That's that's those are the stats.
There is a lot more charts here that that can be useful.
So I will look around if you haven't yet and maybe you'll find you know this cost of Paso's action will
cost purchase action different different shows that you might see someone pool but we'll talk more about
meme pool later on.
There's actual rate how many transactions I suppose this might be interesting how many transactions
are added to the pool per second.
So this is the speed at which transactions are being added You can see it's kind of like it's interesting
the seasonal looks like maybe it was on a season or this is like because this is tweenie I guess this
is per.
This is time of day.
You like I think this is the time of day or something like that.
So the drop is about 4:00 p.m. 4:00 p.m. or P.M..
And also I'm not sure what time which which system time using 6:39 my time.
OK.
So it looks like it's my time.
So Australia time maybe has the time difference of America because America Americans like waking up
now I guess anyway.
So interesting stuff.
Interesting charts.
Have a look around.
Another interesting another thing I wanted to show you is if you go to BTC dot com there's a transaction
an accelerator.
So this is like am I going to remember my nipples have these transactional accelerators.
Remember we said that Zeshan could get stuck.
So if that happens you can go to a transaction accelerator and you put in transaction hash and then
they'll tell you how much it will cost you for them to accelerate your transaction meaning that here
it says that there's a 75 percent chance that it will be pushed through within the first hour and there's
a 98 percent chance within four hours so it's a common issue and they actually make money of it that
they're like we have we're in a mining pool.
We have the power to choose which transaction is going first and which transaction go and last.
And so we're going to you know like if you want us to prioritize your transaction then you know pay
up basically pay up and we'll put it through for you.
OK.
So that's the transaction accelerator.
And finally to finish off today I had some additional reading for you.
It's a simple article nothing nothing too complex.
How bitcoin mining works but we've already covered quite a lot of things.
And it talks about no solely a positive economic difficulty.
So it's a very short article but if you want to kind of like recap on your knowledge from a third source
just see if you if you have any if you like you by now you should be able to understand every single
thing in this article.
It should be.
No no no holes as far as I can see from here.
Oh you have all the knowledge to understand this whole article including what we discussed today miners
keep trying but with a different block configuration so I wanted to give you this article earlier on.
But then they had this comment in it and I didn't want it to be confusing but now you should be able
to understand everything.
So if you want to try it out how Bitcoin mining works and I'm going to ask and billing link will be
of course in the course course notes.
Yeah.
So just a good way to confirm your knowledge on that note.
Thank you so much for being here today and I'll wait to see you next time.
Until then enjoy bludgeons.